docs/modules/administrator-guides/pages/update.adoc, before:

= Update Guide for OpenDevStack administrators
:page-layout: documentation

Learn all about how to update your OpenDevStack repositories and the running
installation of it.

== How to update your OpenDevStack repositories

Updating repositories means that new refs from repositories under
`github.com/opendevstack` are pushed into the repositories in your BitBucket
instance. Note that only updates to the `production` branch in BitBucket will
have any effect on the OpenDevStack installation.

First, you need a clone of each repository in BitBucket which should be updated
on your local machine.

Once this has been done, you need to fetch new refs from
`github.com/opendevstack`. To do so, add a remote pointing to it like this:

[source,sh]
----
git remote add ods https://github.com/opendevstack/<REPO_NAME>.git
----

Now you are ready to update the refs. It is recommended to update both the
`master` branch and, unless you want to live off the bleeding edge, a release
branch such as `2.x`. Use the steps shown below:

[source,sh]
----
# Ensure you have the latest refs from ODS locally
git fetch ods
# Update master
git checkout master
git reset --hard ods/master
git push origin master
# Update 2.x
git checkout 2.x
git reset --hard ods/2.x
git push origin 2.x
----

If your OpenDevStack installation is based on the `production` branch, then you
need to create a pull request on BitBucket from `2.x` into `production` now.

Now that the repositories are updated, you also need to modify the images and the
running instances in OpenShift.

== How to update your OpenDevStack installation

Updating consists of two parts: following the general update procedure
(applicable to all version updates) and a version specific update procedure.

=== General update procedure

==== Backup

Before proceeding, it is advisable to make a backup of the existing OpenShift
configuration. This can be done easily with Tailor:

[source,sh]
----
# Backup CD project
tailor export -n cd > backup_CD.yml

# Backup provision app namespaces
tailor export -n prov-cd > backup_PROV_CD.yml
tailor export -n prov-dev > backup_PROV_DEV.yml
tailor export -n prov-test > backup_PROV_TEST.yml
----

Note that the executing user needs to have permissions to access all resources
in the `cd` namespaces for this to work properly.

==== Tailor

Next, update Tailor to the version corresponding to your new OpenDevStack
version, which is noted at the start of each version specific update procedure.

==== Configuration

Then, update/add/remove the configuration parameters (located in `ods-configuration`).
To do this, use the `./update` script located in `ods-core/configuration-sample`.

==== OCP resources

Next, run `tailor update` in `ods-core` and `ods-quickstarters` to bring all OCP resources (such as DC or BC) into sync. Review the diff produced by Tailor carefully, especially around changes to PVCs.

==== Images

After all OCP resources have been updated, you need to start a build for all build configs
in the `cd` namespace to create new images.

==== Provisioning App

Also, the provisioning app should be updated. To do that, run `tailor update`
in each `ocp-config` folder, and then trigger a build in Jenkins to redeploy the
service.


Now that the general procedure has been completed, you need to apply all the
update notes below which apply to your version change.

=== 1.2.x to 2.x
2.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.11.0[0.11.0].

==== Setup secure route checking

Go to `ods-core/check-ocp-secure-routes/ocp-config` and run `tailor update` to setup a cron job that will check exposed routes once a day (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/pull/280).

==== Project specific CD users

As each project may use a specific CD user now, you have to configure the username of the global CD user. To do so, add `username: Y2RfdXNlcg==` to secret `cd/cd-user-token`.

==== Deprecation of `shared-images` namespace

The `shared-images` namespace is no longer part of OpenDevStack. If you do not have any users that use images from that namespace, you may simply delete it via `oc delete project shared-images`. Otherwise, you can leave it in place and remote it when you see fit.

==== Rundeck removal

Rundeck is longer part of OpenDevStack and can simply be removed.

==== Image puller rights

Images in the `cd` namespaces should be pullable from all authenticated users. This permission is required for the new project provisioning approach to work:

[source,sh]
----
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-group system:image-puller system:authenticated -n cd
oc adm policy add-role-to-group view system:authenticated -n cd
----

Further, `*-dev` and `*-test` namespaces should be able to pull images from the corresponding `*-cd` namespaces to make it easy to shared base images within a project (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/issues/293). It is recommended to grant these rights for every project in your cluster. If you don't do this, users will have to add the permissions manually if they want to use this flow.

==== Rollout new webhook proxy instances

2.x allows the webhook proxy to build repositories in external projects if configured (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/issues/229). This feature is required for the new quickstarter provisioning approach to work. Therefore, it is recommended to tag a webhook proxy images built from the `2.x` branch or `v.2.0` tag with `latest` so that all webhook proxies in the cluster get updated.

==== Configure the provisioning app

Review the `ConfigMap` of the provisioning app in `prov-dev` and `prov-test`. Depending on your requirements, you might want to configure additional quickstarters (`jenkinspipeline.quickstarter...`) and/or change the readable repositories of the project specific users (`scm.global.readablerepos.opendevstack[x]`)



=== 1.1.x to 1.2.x
1.2.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.10.2[0.10.2].

==== Prepare installation for MRO/DocGen quickstarter
The new functionality to create documents via Jenkins requires the presence of an image for the DocGen service. In an upcoming release, this will be integrated nicely. For `1.2.x`, the image needs to be built once during the update procedure. The recommended way to do this is to build the image in the `prov` namespaces and then move the image tag into the `cd` namespace. The first step is to create a pipeline `oc -n prov-cd process -f pipeline.yml --param REPO_BASE=<YOUR-REPO-BASE-HERE> --param TRIGGER_SECRET=<YOUR-SECERET-HERE> | oc -n prov-cd create -f -`, where `pipeline.yml` looks like this:

[source,yml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Template
objects:
- apiVersion: build.openshift.io/v1
  kind: BuildConfig
  metadata:
    name: docgen-production
  spec:
    nodeSelector: {}
    output: {}
    postCommit: {}
    resources: {}
    runPolicy: Serial
    source:
      git:
        ref: production
        uri: ${REPO_BASE}/opendevstack/ods-document-generation-svc.git
      sourceSecret:
        name: cd-user-with-password
        type: Git
    strategy:
      jenkinsPipelineStrategy:
        jenkinsfilePath: Jenkinsfile
        type: JenkinsPipeline
    triggers:
    - generic:
        secret: ${TRIGGER_SECRET}
        type: Generic
parameters:
- name: TRIGGER_SECRET
  required: true
- name: REPO_BASE
  required: true
  description: Path to repository, e.g. https://cd_user@bitbucket.domain.com/scm
----

Then, create the `BuildConfig` and `ImageStream` in `prov-dev` using `oc -n prov-dev process -f bc-is.yml | oc -n prov-dev create -f -`, where `bc-is.yml` looks like this:
[source,yml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Template
objects:
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: BuildConfig
  metadata:
    creationTimestamp: null
    labels:
      app: prov-docgen
    name: docgen
  spec:
    failedBuildsHistoryLimit: 5
    successfulBuildsHistoryLimit: 5
    nodeSelector: null
    output:
      to:
        kind: ImageStreamTag
        name: docgen:latest
    postCommit: {}
    resources: {}
    runPolicy: Serial
    source:
      binary: {}
      type: Binary
    strategy:
      dockerStrategy: {}
      type: Docker
    triggers: []
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: ImageStream
  metadata:
    labels:
      app: prov-docgen
    name: docgen
  spec:
    dockerImageRepository: docgen
    lookupPolicy:
      local: false
----

Note that this points to the `production` branch of `ods-document-generation-svc` - ensure this branch is present.

After all is setup, start a build in Jenkins, and then move the built image to the cd namespace:

[source,sh]
----
oc tag prov-dev/docgen:latest cd/docgen:latest
----


=== 1.0.x to 1.1.x

1.1.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.9.4[0.9.4].

There are no further mandatory changes apart from the general procedure
described above when updating from 1.0.x.

Users are highly recommended to take a look at the updates done to the
boilerplates, especially the `Jenkinsfile` and `Dockerfile`. E.g. the Python
quickstarter is now building an image containing all dependencies instead of
installing them during runtime.

=== 0.1.0 to 1.0.x

1.0.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.9.3[0.9.3].

==== Update `xyz-cd` projects

There is a new webhook proxy now, which proxies webhooks sent from BitBucket to
Jenkins. As well as proxying, this service creates and deletes pipelines on the
fly, allowing to have one pipeline per branch. To update:

* Setup the image in the `cd` project by running `tailor update` in
`ods-core/jenkins/ocp-config`.
* Build the image.
* Setup the  webhook proxy next to each Jenkins instance. E.g., go to
`ods-project-quickstarters/ocp-templates/templates` and run
`oc process cd//cd-jenkins-webhook-proxy | oc create -f- -n xyz-cd`. Repeat for
each project.

==== Update components (information for ODS users)

For each component, follow the following steps:

In `Jenkinsfile`:

. Set the shared library version to `1.0.x`.
. Replace `stageUpdateOpenshiftBuild` with `stageStartOpenshiftBuild`.
. Remove `stageCreateOpenshiftEnvironment` and `stageTriggerAllBuilds`.
. Adapt the build logic to match the latest state of the quickstarter
boilerplates.
. Remove `verbose: true` config (replace with `debug: true` if you want debug
output).
. Configure `branchToEnvironmentMapping`, see README.md. If you used
environment cloning, also apply the instructions for that.

In `docker/Dockerfile`:

* Adapt the content to match the latest state of the quickstarter boilerplates.
* No Nexus upload build artifact is required anymore, use a copy in Jenkins shell
command to docker folder (see in any boilerplate how it is done now).
* In BitBucket, remove the existing "Post Webhooks" and create a new "Webhook",
pointing to the new webhook proxy. The URL has to be of the form
`+https://webhook-proxy-$PROJECT_ID-cd.$DOMAIN?trigger_secret=$SECRET+`. As
events, select "Repository Push" and "Pull request Merged + Declined".

==== Update provisioning app

If you want to build the provisioning app automatically when commits are pushed
to BitBucket, add a webhook as described in the previous section.

==== Fix Jenkins master BUILD_URL

1.0.x makes use of the `BUILD_URL` env variable automatically set by Jenkins. This
env variable might be `null` in your Jenkins master. To fix this, copy
https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/blob/1.0.x/jenkins/master/configuration/init.groovy.d/url.groovy into each Jenins master to `/var/lib/jenkins/init.groovy.d/url.groovy`.

==== Fix JSON patch replace error in Jenkins build

1.0.x sets image labels on the `BuildConfig` in Jenkins. It does this by issuing a JSON patch `replace` request to `/spec/output/imageLabels`. This path was not present in prior versions, which can lead to the following error: `Error from server: jsonpatch replace operation does not apply: doc is missing key: /spec/output/imageLabels`. For newly provisioned components, this has been fixed with https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-project-quickstarters/pull/188. For existing components, add the path to the `BuildConfig` manually by editing the YAML in OpenShift.

Commit message:

secure route checking moved to ods-contrib

docs/modules/administrator-guides/pages/update.adoc, after:

= Update Guide for OpenDevStack administrators
:page-layout: documentation

Learn all about how to update your OpenDevStack repositories and the running
installation of it.

== How to update your OpenDevStack repositories

Updating repositories means that new refs from repositories under
`github.com/opendevstack` are pushed into the repositories in your BitBucket
instance. Note that only updates to the `production` branch in BitBucket will
have any effect on the OpenDevStack installation.

First, you need a clone of each repository in BitBucket which should be updated
on your local machine.

Once this has been done, you need to fetch new refs from
`github.com/opendevstack`. To do so, add a remote pointing to it like this:

[source,sh]
----
git remote add ods https://github.com/opendevstack/<REPO_NAME>.git
----

Now you are ready to update the refs. It is recommended to update both the
`master` branch and, unless you want to live off the bleeding edge, a release
branch such as `2.x`. Use the steps shown below:

[source,sh]
----
# Ensure you have the latest refs from ODS locally
git fetch ods
# Update master
git checkout master
git reset --hard ods/master
git push origin master
# Update 2.x
git checkout 2.x
git reset --hard ods/2.x
git push origin 2.x
----

If your OpenDevStack installation is based on the `production` branch, then you
need to create a pull request on BitBucket from `2.x` into `production` now.

Now that the repositories are updated, you also need to modify the images and the
running instances in OpenShift.

== How to update your OpenDevStack installation

Updating consists of two parts: following the general update procedure
(applicable to all version updates) and a version specific update procedure.

=== General update procedure

==== Backup

Before proceeding, it is advisable to make a backup of the existing OpenShift
configuration. This can be done easily with Tailor:

[source,sh]
----
# Backup CD project
tailor export -n cd > backup_CD.yml

# Backup provision app namespaces
tailor export -n prov-cd > backup_PROV_CD.yml
tailor export -n prov-dev > backup_PROV_DEV.yml
tailor export -n prov-test > backup_PROV_TEST.yml
----

Note that the executing user needs to have permissions to access all resources
in the `cd` namespaces for this to work properly.

==== Tailor

Next, update Tailor to the version corresponding to your new OpenDevStack
version, which is noted at the start of each version specific update procedure.

==== Configuration

Then, update/add/remove the configuration parameters (located in `ods-configuration`).
To do this, use the `./update` script located in `ods-core/configuration-sample`.

==== OCP resources

Next, run `tailor update` in `ods-core` and `ods-quickstarters` to bring all OCP resources (such as DC or BC) into sync. Review the diff produced by Tailor carefully, especially around changes to PVCs.

==== Images

After all OCP resources have been updated, you need to start a build for all build configs
in the `cd` namespace to create new images.

==== Provisioning App

Also, the provisioning app should be updated. To do that, run `tailor update`
in each `ocp-config` folder, and then trigger a build in Jenkins to redeploy the
service.


Now that the general procedure has been completed, you need to apply all the
update notes below which apply to your version change.

=== 1.2.x to 2.x
2.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.11.0[0.11.0].

==== Setup secure route checking

This secure route checking code has been removed in version 2.1.x as this is an
optional step. The code now is available at https://github.com/BIX-Digital/ods-contrib.

Go to `ods-core/check-ocp-secure-routes/ocp-config` and run `tailor update` to setup a cron job that will check exposed routes once a day (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/pull/280).

==== Project specific CD users

As each project may use a specific CD user now, you have to configure the username of the global CD user. To do so, add `username: Y2RfdXNlcg==` to secret `cd/cd-user-token`.

==== Deprecation of `shared-images` namespace

The `shared-images` namespace is no longer part of OpenDevStack. If you do not have any users that use images from that namespace, you may simply delete it via `oc delete project shared-images`. Otherwise, you can leave it in place and remote it when you see fit.

==== Rundeck removal

Rundeck is longer part of OpenDevStack and can simply be removed.

==== Image puller rights

Images in the `cd` namespaces should be pullable from all authenticated users. This permission is required for the new project provisioning approach to work:

[source,sh]
----
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-group system:image-puller system:authenticated -n cd
oc adm policy add-role-to-group view system:authenticated -n cd
----

Further, `*-dev` and `*-test` namespaces should be able to pull images from the corresponding `*-cd` namespaces to make it easy to shared base images within a project (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/issues/293). It is recommended to grant these rights for every project in your cluster. If you don't do this, users will have to add the permissions manually if they want to use this flow.

==== Rollout new webhook proxy instances

2.x allows the webhook proxy to build repositories in external projects if configured (see https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/issues/229). This feature is required for the new quickstarter provisioning approach to work. Therefore, it is recommended to tag a webhook proxy images built from the `2.x` branch or `v.2.0` tag with `latest` so that all webhook proxies in the cluster get updated.

==== Configure the provisioning app

Review the `ConfigMap` of the provisioning app in `prov-dev` and `prov-test`. Depending on your requirements, you might want to configure additional quickstarters (`jenkinspipeline.quickstarter...`) and/or change the readable repositories of the project specific users (`scm.global.readablerepos.opendevstack[x]`)



=== 1.1.x to 1.2.x
1.2.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.10.2[0.10.2].

==== Prepare installation for MRO/DocGen quickstarter
The new functionality to create documents via Jenkins requires the presence of an image for the DocGen service. In an upcoming release, this will be integrated nicely. For `1.2.x`, the image needs to be built once during the update procedure. The recommended way to do this is to build the image in the `prov` namespaces and then move the image tag into the `cd` namespace. The first step is to create a pipeline `oc -n prov-cd process -f pipeline.yml --param REPO_BASE=<YOUR-REPO-BASE-HERE> --param TRIGGER_SECRET=<YOUR-SECERET-HERE> | oc -n prov-cd create -f -`, where `pipeline.yml` looks like this:

[source,yml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Template
objects:
- apiVersion: build.openshift.io/v1
  kind: BuildConfig
  metadata:
    name: docgen-production
  spec:
    nodeSelector: {}
    output: {}
    postCommit: {}
    resources: {}
    runPolicy: Serial
    source:
      git:
        ref: production
        uri: ${REPO_BASE}/opendevstack/ods-document-generation-svc.git
      sourceSecret:
        name: cd-user-with-password
        type: Git
    strategy:
      jenkinsPipelineStrategy:
        jenkinsfilePath: Jenkinsfile
        type: JenkinsPipeline
    triggers:
    - generic:
        secret: ${TRIGGER_SECRET}
        type: Generic
parameters:
- name: TRIGGER_SECRET
  required: true
- name: REPO_BASE
  required: true
  description: Path to repository, e.g. https://cd_user@bitbucket.domain.com/scm
----

Then, create the `BuildConfig` and `ImageStream` in `prov-dev` using `oc -n prov-dev process -f bc-is.yml | oc -n prov-dev create -f -`, where `bc-is.yml` looks like this:
[source,yml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Template
objects:
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: BuildConfig
  metadata:
    creationTimestamp: null
    labels:
      app: prov-docgen
    name: docgen
  spec:
    failedBuildsHistoryLimit: 5
    successfulBuildsHistoryLimit: 5
    nodeSelector: null
    output:
      to:
        kind: ImageStreamTag
        name: docgen:latest
    postCommit: {}
    resources: {}
    runPolicy: Serial
    source:
      binary: {}
      type: Binary
    strategy:
      dockerStrategy: {}
      type: Docker
    triggers: []
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: ImageStream
  metadata:
    labels:
      app: prov-docgen
    name: docgen
  spec:
    dockerImageRepository: docgen
    lookupPolicy:
      local: false
----

Note that this points to the `production` branch of `ods-document-generation-svc` - ensure this branch is present.

After all is setup, start a build in Jenkins, and then move the built image to the cd namespace:

[source,sh]
----
oc tag prov-dev/docgen:latest cd/docgen:latest
----


=== 1.0.x to 1.1.x

1.1.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.9.4[0.9.4].

There are no further mandatory changes apart from the general procedure
described above when updating from 1.0.x.

Users are highly recommended to take a look at the updates done to the
boilerplates, especially the `Jenkinsfile` and `Dockerfile`. E.g. the Python
quickstarter is now building an image containing all dependencies instead of
installing them during runtime.

=== 0.1.0 to 1.0.x

1.0.x requires Tailor https://github.com/opendevstack/tailor/releases/tag/v0.9.3[0.9.3].

==== Update `xyz-cd` projects

There is a new webhook proxy now, which proxies webhooks sent from BitBucket to
Jenkins. As well as proxying, this service creates and deletes pipelines on the
fly, allowing to have one pipeline per branch. To update:

* Setup the image in the `cd` project by running `tailor update` in
`ods-core/jenkins/ocp-config`.
* Build the image.
* Setup the  webhook proxy next to each Jenkins instance. E.g., go to
`ods-project-quickstarters/ocp-templates/templates` and run
`oc process cd//cd-jenkins-webhook-proxy | oc create -f- -n xyz-cd`. Repeat for
each project.

==== Update components (information for ODS users)

For each component, follow the following steps:

In `Jenkinsfile`:

. Set the shared library version to `1.0.x`.
. Replace `stageUpdateOpenshiftBuild` with `stageStartOpenshiftBuild`.
. Remove `stageCreateOpenshiftEnvironment` and `stageTriggerAllBuilds`.
. Adapt the build logic to match the latest state of the quickstarter
boilerplates.
. Remove `verbose: true` config (replace with `debug: true` if you want debug
output).
. Configure `branchToEnvironmentMapping`, see README.md. If you used
environment cloning, also apply the instructions for that.

In `docker/Dockerfile`:

* Adapt the content to match the latest state of the quickstarter boilerplates.
* No Nexus upload build artifact is required anymore, use a copy in Jenkins shell
command to docker folder (see in any boilerplate how it is done now).
* In BitBucket, remove the existing "Post Webhooks" and create a new "Webhook",
pointing to the new webhook proxy. The URL has to be of the form
`+https://webhook-proxy-$PROJECT_ID-cd.$DOMAIN?trigger_secret=$SECRET+`. As
events, select "Repository Push" and "Pull request Merged + Declined".

==== Update provisioning app

If you want to build the provisioning app automatically when commits are pushed
to BitBucket, add a webhook as described in the previous section.

==== Fix Jenkins master BUILD_URL

1.0.x makes use of the `BUILD_URL` env variable automatically set by Jenkins. This
env variable might be `null` in your Jenkins master. To fix this, copy
https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-core/blob/1.0.x/jenkins/master/configuration/init.groovy.d/url.groovy into each Jenins master to `/var/lib/jenkins/init.groovy.d/url.groovy`.

==== Fix JSON patch replace error in Jenkins build

1.0.x sets image labels on the `BuildConfig` in Jenkins. It does this by issuing a JSON patch `replace` request to `/spec/output/imageLabels`. This path was not present in prior versions, which can lead to the following error: `Error from server: jsonpatch replace operation does not apply: doc is missing key: /spec/output/imageLabels`. For newly provisioned components, this has been fixed with https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-project-quickstarters/pull/188. For existing components, add the path to the `BuildConfig` manually by editing the YAML in OpenShift.
