doc/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
layout: index
---

# The terminal is empty when using vagrant ssh in cygwin

By default cygwin uses the ssh client from it's msys environment
Use "VAGRANT_PREFER_SYSTEM_BIN=1 vagrant ssh " on Windows 10 to tell cygwin to use windows's ssh-client

Source: https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/issues/9143#issuecomment-343311263

# ERROR! the role '...' was not found in /vagrant/ansible/playbooks/roles ...

This error can happen on windows when the shared folder between windows and the vm doesn't have the right permissions. Then Ansible will ignore the ansible.cfg config-file in this folder which will cause it to use the wrong directory to search for roles.
To fix this you can modify the ansible.cfg file in /etc/ansible and change the roles_path to 
```
roles_path = /vagrant/ansible/roles
```


# fatal: [atlassian1]: UNREACHABLE! => {"changed": false, "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: Permission denied (publickey,password).\r\n", "unreachable": true}

This error happens when executing the ansible-playbooks as root user.
You have to execute the playbooks as vagrant

# Timeouts during the execution of ansible-playbooks

Just execute the playbook again. The network is sometimes too slow.

# Minishift does not start

If you install Minishift in an environment with an AD domain it is possible, that Minishift doesn't start up.
Try to connect to your AD domain and then restart Minishift again.

# All other issues

Just open a ticket against OpenDevStack - don't be shy there is no wrong or bad question. And we are there to help!

Commit message:

Update based on https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-project-quickstar… (#74)
* Update based on https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-project-quickstarters/issues/96

* Formatting

doc/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
layout: index
---

# The terminal is empty when using vagrant ssh in cygwin

By default cygwin uses the ssh client from it's msys environment
Use "VAGRANT_PREFER_SYSTEM_BIN=1 vagrant ssh " on Windows 10 to tell cygwin to use windows's ssh-client

Source: https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/issues/9143#issuecomment-343311263

# ERROR! the role '...' was not found in /vagrant/ansible/playbooks/roles ...

This error can happen on windows when the shared folder between windows and the vm doesn't have the right permissions. Then Ansible will ignore the ansible.cfg config-file in this folder which will cause it to use the wrong directory to search for roles.
To fix this you can modify the ansible.cfg file in /etc/ansible and change the roles_path to 
```
roles_path = /vagrant/ansible/roles
```


# fatal: [atlassian1]: UNREACHABLE! => {"changed": false, "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: Permission denied (publickey,password).\r\n", "unreachable": true}

This error happens when executing the ansible-playbooks as root user.
You have to execute the playbooks as vagrant

# Timeouts during the execution of ansible-playbooks

Just execute the playbook again. The network is sometimes too slow.

# Minishift does not start

If you install Minishift in an environment with an AD domain it is possible, that Minishift doesn't start up.
Try to connect to your AD domain and then restart Minishift again.

# Jenkins slave - Image pull error (ErrImgPull / ImagePullback Exception)
Jenkins builds fails (or gets stuck at "continuing on node xyz"). Check pods in the project's CD project - and see if a slave pod is in error state with the above message in the events section.

In this case - grant `system:authenticated (group)` -> `image-puller` rights.

# All other issues

Just open a ticket against OpenDevStack - don't be shy there is no wrong or bad question. And we are there to help!
